# Lyriki

A unique web app that enables you to enter any lyrics, and listen to an autogenerated melody that matches it.

### How to use this app
Simply select your mood, any key, and enter lyrics that can be in any form. Press the "Make your Song!" button, and congratulations, you are a lyricist.


### Back-end Decription
The back-end algorithm was written using Python and it's modules MIDIUtil and Pygame. When the lyrics are inputted, the program interprets each word and breaks it up into syllables, which creates the foundation of the beats in the melody.
Then based on the mood selected, the program selects a pre-coded chord progression that best reflects the emotion. Based on this chord progression, random notes that match the chord at it's instance are mapped on to the beats from earlier. The product combining the chords, beats, and notes is finally translated to a MIDI file, ready to be played by the browser.

### Front-end Description
The front-end fully utilized the Bootstrap theme in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to achieve a smooth user experience. Buttons are kept minimal and simple so the users do not feel the common intimidation due to unknown music terminology. When the "Make your Song!" button is pressed, the browser calls the back-end program and plays the generated MIDI file via flask and pygame.


### What's next?
We are planning to make progress on this project at a slow rate, however are definitely committed to evolve Lyriki into a greater application that could potentially be used as a method of self expression on SNS.
To achieve this, we would most likely be working on increasing the "mood" options, polishing the syllable detection algorithm, and supporting word limits similar to twitter's.


### How to use it on your computer
We currently do not have a domain linked to our project, however we are working to make this available as soon as poosible.
